hi you guys and welcome back to my
channel my name is April and today I
have a highly highly recommended
recommended requested video on how to
gain weight as a petite woman so I know
I have done a bunch of videos on fat
loss and body recomposition where I'm
telling you guys how to lose fat and
gain muscle as a petite but there's also
petite women who are trying to purely
gain weight trying to gain lots of
muscle and get that curvaceous look to
kind of go from skinny and thin to
gaining muscle which is aside from
aesthetics extremely healthy because it
increases your metabolism and having
muscle allows you to age better feel
better you're stronger in your life you
can carry your groceries on your own I
could go on forever so today I'm gonna
teach you how to gain weight
specifically if you are a hardgainer
meaning you have trouble gaining weight
as a petite woman okay guys so we're
just gonna jump into this I'm gonna try
to give you a nice plan with a bunch of
steps things that need to happen from a
scientific standpoint in order for you
to actually gain muscle so the first one
is that you need to be eating at
maintenance calories or surplus calories
what this means is that the number of
calories that you're consuming needs to
be equal to the number of colors you're
expending or more than so that you can
tell your body to gain weight now of
course when you say you want to give me
you're not trying to increase your fat
tissue your fat deposits you're not
trying to increase your fat we're trying
to put on lean muscle right so there are
specific ways that I want you to go
about a bold quote would be called
eating in a surplus or eating at your
maintenance level and training
higher frequency so that you can
simulate stimulate your muscles and gain
muscle so when it comes to nutrition
this is going to be the number one thing
that is determining whether or not
you're gaining weight or losing weight
as a petite woman let's start with how
you even know what your maintenance
calories are or your surplus calories
right I recommend you just going on
Google and typing in tdee calculator
total daily energy expenditure
calculator and see what comes up you'll
have to put in your weight their height
that's where height comes in and your
sex and your goal and they'll usually
ask you if you want to get a deficit
that would be for losing weight
maintenance level or surplus I recommend
doing maintenance level or surplus
surplus would be a more aggressive
weight gain approach at maintenance
level I do believe that you can still
and it's scientifically proven you can
still put on weight and your maintenance
level depending on how you're eating and
how you are working out on how many days
a week so your first step is to figure
out what your maintenance calories are
your second step is to figure out how
you're going to eat more to support your
weight gain goals all comes down to
planning have you guys I really really
really can't emphasize this enough you
need to be getting more protein up
protein amino acids these are the things
that make up your muscles when we want
to grow our muscles and stimulate our
muscles we have to make sure that we are
getting the building blocks of those
muscles and for our protein so for
petite women a lot of times I get the
question how much do I need how much
protein do I really need and it's going
to come down to you as a person on an
individual level I can't prescribe the
number of grams of protein that you
should have because that wouldn't be
responsible and it's very different for
every individual however I personally
eat about one gram of protein per pound
of bodyweight so if I was a
20 pounds I would have 120 grams protein
now this may not be right for you like
I'm saying you might need point 8 grams
of protein per pound of body weight so I
would I would suggest that you play with
this if you are currently having only 50
grams of protein per day and you're 120
pounds or 110 pounds that's probably not
enough of course I don't know your
medical history I don't know where you
currently are eating what your dietary
requirements are your goals all of these
things however you probably need to
increase your protein and there are
great ways to do this in a lean and
clean way so you can increase your
protein intake by eating more lean meats
so lean ground turkey you can have
chicken rods you can have salmon a fish
is an amazing way to get lean protein
shrimp salmon Cod whitefish what else
this is what these are all the meats
that I eat to hit my protein goal so I
make sure that I have about 30 grams of
protein for per meal and maybe at the
end of the day I have a protein
supplement something to get it up into
the 120 grams of protein so this is the
most important thing is that your if you
want to gain muscle you need to be
eating a little bit more protein
especially if you're working out which
brings me to my second point the
workouts you cannot build muscle if
you're not working out you can gain
weight if you're not working out if you
want to just gain weight as a petite you
will gain it in the form of fat if
you're eating in a surplus but not
exercising so the second most important
thing is that you are engaged and
working on your body in the gym my
recommendation is that you are following
a weightlifting program you're lifting
weights four to five days per week and I
would also recommend doing a straining
split as a petite woman I don't always
recommend training
it's because they can really stimulate
your muscles and for women who are not
trying to women who are already at a
good weight if they're trying to lose
weight and they don't want to put on
bulky muscle I would not tell them to
you know surplus and lift do a training
split meaning they're doing arms just
arms one day just legs another day
however if you want muscle and you have
no muscle right now as a PT woman and
you really need to stimulate your
muscles you should follow a training
split such as let's see what I have here
you could do two leg days so that could
be a quad and glute focus day and then a
hamstring and glute focus day you could
have that could be Monday and we'll say
Tuesday we'll leave back and shoulders
so you're really going in there
stimulating the muscles in your back
working on your shoulders on Wednesday
you can have a total body hit day just
to keep your cardiovascular health up
and hit doesn't necessarily decrease
your muscle if you're doing long sorry
low intensity steady-state cardio like
lists it's called list on the treadmill
that is gonna just gonna by nature is
catabolic break down muscle on the
treadmill but if you want to get a
little cardio and hit is a great way to
continue to build muscle while also
shedding some fat so we said Monday
would be glutes and hamstrings and that
leaves Thursday you could do glutes and
quads Friday you could do chest your
pecs triceps back your arms and your
biceps so this would be a great training
split for someone who's trying to really
stimulate their muscles s petite woman
and in curves gain strength gain muscle
while you're also eating at your
maintenance level or higher and a
surplus and you're making sure that
you're getting enough lean store
of protein in your diet okay step three
limit your low intensity steady-state
cardio if you're a petite woman and you
have no muscle tone I mean everyone has
muscle but if you want to get more and
you feel like you don't have a lot I
would not recommend doing hours of
cardio most petite women do not need
this anyways I would not get on the
treadmill or the Stairmaster or the bike
and do excessive amounts of cardio this
is because this process is breaking down
muscle tissue in your body as well as
fat but if you want to have the best
chances of increasing your muscle mass
then I would not do this much cardio I
wouldn't do any cardio at all really
before progressive overload so
progressive overload is the principal
and fitness the states that your body
adapts to the demands that you put on it
so the more the heavier you lift the
stronger your body will grow hence while
it will get more muscle of course I want
you guys to progress your weight in the
safest way possible and always be sure
that your form is correct before you
progress make sure you can finish all of
the reps in a given set before you
progress your weights however a
progressive overload is going to be key
to building muscle if you just lift the
same weights every day forever you'll
never stimulate the muscles because your
muscles will be adjusted so make sure
you write down your weights this is the
biggest tip write down the weights you
do for each of your training days on a
piece of paper or aren't sticking on
your phone and each week take a look
perform the exercise with the same
weight but every four weeks make sure
you're incrementally increasing these
weights whether it's by a few pounds
five pounds just make sure that every
four to six weeks
you are trying to make gains you're
trying to increase the load
and along with the progressive overload
when you have your split on your split
your training sled try different
exercises not everybody reacts the same
way to certain exercises some people
will do better with hip thrusts to
stimulate the boots most people do well
with hip throws to stimulate boots other
people need to really focus on more
glute activation before they get into
that so really just try different
exercises think about them also if
you're using you want to feel the
contraction you really want to feel
yourself working and stimulating the
muscle another great way to do this is
to just go slow and really try to feel
that contraction muscle okay step 5 is
to also eat your carbs and your fats so
I said you need to eat enough protein
but it's a whole diet here it's a whole
picture holistically and I know that I
have seen with my clients some petite
women who are hard gainers are a little
bit afraid of eating carbs in fact many
people are afraid of eating carbs but
cards are the key to gaining your muscle
as well you need to eat enough carbs so
that when you go to workout in the gym
you're not burning your muscle on your
workouts I would be the opposite Bowl of
what you have right so try to pad extra
carbs around your workout so before your
workouts and after your workouts to make
the most use of those hearts towards
building muscle otherwise if you go and
do fasted workouts if your goal is to
gain muscle and you're going in and you
know you're not you haven't eaten
anything in hours your body doesn't have
that much energy to turn to doesn't
Luco sand a blood stream from
carbohydrates it's just gonna turn maybe
to your muscle and start to break down
muscle tissue which is the opposite of
what you want so remember you need carbs
and you need fats also to increase your
muscle size to grow your muscle tissues
that being said if you're eating in a
surplus or maintenance and you're trying
to gain muscle it is completely
inevitable that you will gain a little
bit of fat along the way this is just
everybody builder knows this everyone in
the fitness world knows if you are
gaining muscle you're also gaining a
little bit of fat so if you're starting
to gain weight as a petite woman you're
seeing muscle come in but you're also
noticing that you're feeling a little
bit larger than you used to this is all
mindset this is all something you've got
to be ready for because yeah you're
trying to gain weight and it's gonna
take a little while and you're gonna
need a little bit of fat with that and
that is completely normal after you've
gained some muscle mass you can if you
want to lose the fat go on cutting back
the calories a little bit and start to
shed off some of the fat try to maintain
as much muscle as possible but whenever
you eat in a surplus you gain a little
bit of fat along with the muscle you
gain and the same goes for a deficit
whenever you eat in a deficit you're
going to lose fat but you also going to
lose a little bit of muscle this is also
why it takes bodybuilders and people
have been you know physique models years
to build a physique they want because
they're increasing their calories
building muscle and then they go through
a cut shut off the fat but they lose a
little muscle a little bit of muscle so
they're going back and forth kind of
getting closer and closer and closer to
that ultimate physique also why you
cannot get that physique in one month or
three months even it takes years of that
process of course we are bodybuilders or
we're not trying to be models we're just
trying to feel good and be strong in our
skin so you can do that by increasing
our calories lifting heavier and just
you're really stimulating the muscles
getting our carbs like everything I
already said already
okay the last step and it's kind of
feeds into this what I was saying was
after you put on all this muscle you
will have increased your metabolism
because it takes more calories to burn
muscle sorry it takes more calories to
maintain muscle and it does fat so at
this point congrats you have gained
muscle you've raised your metabolism and
at this point you need to eat a little
bit more calories actually to sustain
your muscles you're going to be
increasing your caloric threshold at
this point like I said this is the point
where if you want to lose a little bit
of fat it will be very easy to because
you will not be eating 1,300 calories
anymore at the table man you'll be in
closer to 1800 or 2000 and then you can
drop 200 calories lower your carbs a
little bit and always keep the protein
the same and then you'll see fat come
off and you will not feel like you're
dieting this is a great way to lose fat
this is something that's really
recommended because first you get your
metabolism up before you try to cut any
calories but like I said you guys just
want to gain weight so the first step is
to do all the things I already talked
about it make sure your nutrition is
clean and comes from mostly single
ingredient sources and that you're
really consistent and you're working on
yourself in the gym everyday and that's
my best advice this is a pretty
foolproof way to gain muscle this is
what everyone does who wants to gain
muscle the most important thing and the
biggest challenge for you is going to be
the mindset because even though you say
you want to gain muscle you're going to
notice changes in the mirror that make
you feel different you're going to see
yourself getting larger and I know that
that's what you want
weight whenever we see our body change
it's a little bit of a shock and for me
too
but you just got to commit to the
process stay with it and I promise you
guys will get there it'll feel good and
of course if you ever have any questions
you can reach out to me I coach women
through this all the time so I hope this
was helpful helpful I think
words today I hope this was helpful for
you guys and of course if you have any
other requested videos always ask I will
always make them and if you enjoyed this
video please give it a like and support
me and petite women and subscribe for
more and I will chat with you guys soon
bye